---
title: v6.4.0
description: 'Bug fixes and documentation updates release.'
date: // TODO REMEMBER TO UPDATE ON RELEASE
author: russellwheatley
tags:
  - analytics
  - dynamic-links
  - firestore
  - messaging
---

# v6.4.0 Release

> Please tag any GitHub issues regarding v6 with `[v6]` in the title.

🐞 This is a bug fix and feature release. 🐞

## Features

- **messaging:** ([#d66a611](https://github.com/invertase/react-native-firebase/commit/d66a6118f82005087f53b86571990fc071402153))
  - **Android, iOS**: messaging now supports `onNotificationOpenedApp` & also `getInitialNotification` APIs. These are used to detect if a user opened the app via pressing a notification
  - **Android, iOS**: the `RemoteMessage` API now includes a notification payload (if present) when being sent to the messaging APIs (e.g. `onMessage`)
  - **iOS**: `setBackgroundMessageHandler` support for iOS
  - **iOS**: the permissions API has been upgraded to now support custom permissions. The permission API selects sensible defaults however allows you to fully customise them if required. Please note, provisional permissions is now disabled by default (previously, it was enabled by default for iOS 12+ devices)
  - **iOS**: the `requestPermission` & `hasPermission` API now returns the current authorization status, rather than a boolean value. This generally won't break existing apps as any "truthy" logic checks should still work

### SDK & Dependencies Updates

- **in-app-messaging:** update in-app-messaging dependency to latest package name in iOS `InAppMessaging` ([#166692d](https://github.com/invertase/react-native-firebase/commit/166692d68ef396f3e8664edd7feab7c80038004b))

- **in-app-messaging:** allowing gradle to have more than the default memory Firebase dependencies are pretty heavy and the build will fail otherwise ([#3154](https://github.com/invertase/react-native-firebase/issues/3154))([#d65e634](https://github.com/invertase/react-native-firebase/commit/d65e6341a48c66604493e14269d6488d3cc64028))

## Bug Fixes

- **analytics:** logging event params can be objects and arrays albeit they appear as string on the firebase console as per web spec ([#2876](https://github.com/invertase/react-native-firebase/issues/2876)) ([#72e81e5](https://github.com/invertase/react-native-firebase/commit/72e81e5f9921cd23a50fd3d50a8d62052f907965))

- **analytics:** update `logEvent` types ([#65ec7eb](https://github.com/invertase/react-native-firebase/commit/65ec7eb431712f8c4d3cf96c24489e6a13ef4e13))

- **dynamic-links:** switch ShortLinkType interface to an enum ([#870d0a1](https://github.com/invertase/react-native-firebase/commit/870d0a198692c65d2857765d1b216738ec74856f))

- **dynamic-links:** links options not correctly applied in iOS ([#54bc6f8](https://github.com/invertase/react-native-firebase/commit/54bc6f8403b12a8cfaf0b862d13310ef28076d06))

- **dynamic-links:** missing return statement causing bug in iOS ([#3315](https://github.com/invertase/react-native-firebase/issues/3315)) ([#1661f6e](https://github.com/invertase/react-native-firebase/commit/1661f6e084c47ed835cc4539c654286964a6d9a8))

- **firestore:** improve firestore querying. `where` field parameter cannot match `orderBy` parameter ([#6311dc8](https://github.com/invertase/react-native-firebase/commit/6311dc8f68e6cf0605d2f306885d2fbc0ef779d6))

- **messaging:** fix remote notification tokens ([#bd4dc06](https://github.com/invertase/react-native-firebase/commit/bd4dc06a05f168344d13d001241c81df1949ba29))

- **messaging:** messaging receiver updates / initial notification handling. Attach Notification to RemoteMessage ([#cf0bbdc](https://github.com/invertase/react-native-firebase/commit/cf0bbdcaf06a3f1ba8c210ef1c03bcfff10b5522))

- **messaging:** ([#d66a611](https://github.com/invertase/react-native-firebase/commit/d66a6118f82005087f53b86571990fc071402153))
  - **Android**: ensure a color is always present when user does not set one
  - **Android**: better handling/messages in cases where no handler is set
  - **Android**: `onMessage` will work for data-only, notification-only AND data-notification messages. Currently it only works for data-only
  - **Android**: `setBackgroundMessageHandler` will now work when the app is both fully quit and backgrounded, for data-only, notification-only AND data-notification messages. Previously, when the app was fully quit, events were not being handled
  - **iOS**: calling `registerDeviceForRemoteMessages`/`registerForRemoteNotifications` was causing permissions to be requested before explicitly requesting them via the messaging API
  - **iOS**: registering the device was not being called if it was already registered internally. Devices should always register when `registerDeviceForRemoteMessages` is called as per Apple guidelines, irregardless of current registration status. Make sure you always call `registerDeviceForRemoteMessages` during your app initialization on iOS
  - **iOS**: in cases where requesting an FCM with default scope/authorizedEntity, the underlying code now uses the recommended `instanceIDWithHandler` vs `tokenWithAuthorizedEntity`. This fixes an issue where FCM would throw a "The operation couldn’t be completed" error
  - **iOS**: direct FCM connection is now fixed. When the app was in the foreground, data-only messages were not coming through
  - **iOS**: when in debug mode, the APNS token will be set as a "sandbox" key type as per the Apple guidelines
  - **iOS**: the original APNS swizzling we implemented was not functioning correctly with application:didReceiveRemoteNotification:fetchCompletionHandler:. We added additional logic whereby this is executed in all scenarios (foreground/background/quit) and replaces a deprecated Apple API. This fixes issues with data-only messages not being handled by the device
  - **iOS**: when the application is in the foreground, notification messages were not being sent to the onMessage handler (via willPresentNotification)
  - **iOS**: `FIRMessagingDelegate` methods added to your `AppDelegate.m` will also be called

## Deprecated

- **messaging:** ([#d66a611](https://github.com/invertase/react-native-firebase/commit/d66a6118f82005087f53b86571990fc071402153))
  - **iOS**: `registerForRemoteNotifications` has been deprecated in favour of `registerDeviceForRemoteMessages`. It will be removed in v7. Underlying functionality has not changed, just renamed to avoid confusion with messages vs notifications
  - **iOS**: `isRegisteredForRemoteNotifications` has been deprecated in favour of `isDeviceRegisteredForRemoteMessages`. It will be removed in v7. Underlying functionality has not changed, just renamed to avoid confusion with messages vs notifications.
  - **iOS**: `unregisterForRemoteNotifications` has been deprecated in favour of `unregisterDeviceForRemoteMessages`. It will be removed in v7. Underlying functionality has not changed, just renamed to avoid confusion with messages vs notifications.

## Removed

- removed `indexing` package ([#d7ac657](https://github.com/invertase/react-native-firebase/commit/d7ac657155826ea51edd75502b51b9102140acc6))
